All right.
Let's now move on to the string's text search methods.
We're aiming to look at a few that could lead to confusion.
These are the lastIndexOf matches and regionMatches methods.
Just remember that for the other methods,
the start offset parameter is inclusive
and the end offset is exclusive.
All right.
Let's create a new class in our Strings project.
We'll call this one TextSearch.
Okay.
Start with a simple example there.
Let's actually run this.
I think we can agree there's no surprises
in this code so far.
The code found the beginning index
of the last word, index 20.
All right.
Let's now add an offset.
I'll paste in some code here.
Now we're seeing the fromIndex position 19 using the offset.
Let's run the code.
All right.
Again, it's still no wise surprises.
The search did not start at the end of the string
but start at an index 19 and looked forward, not backwards,
and now its last word is found at index 12.
We'll add one more code segment now again
after the last line of code.
All right.
Let's run this and see what it does.
Now the result here is a little more interesting.
It found the word at index 12 again
although our starting index
was in the middle of that same word.
Is this what you expected?
Or did you expected to truncate the search string
at index 15 and then look forward, looking backwards
resulting in index four?
Again, a little bit interesting there.
All right.
That's lastIndexOf.
Let's now discuss the matches method.
I'm gonna paste in some more code.
Now I'm getting some warnings there
because I haven't actually imported the necessary classes
and I've got the optimise inputs turned off.
So, I'm gonna go ahead and do that.
I'm just gonna add these two imports.
You can see that it's added
the java.util.regex.Matcher and java.util.regex.Pattern.
Let's run the code.
So, the output from this segment is shown as you can see.
You can see that you can't use a simple substring
of a string to try and match with.
Matches return true if the whole string you're passing
as a parameter matches the string.
You have to use a regular expression pattern
generally to use this method
as a way to test for a substring.
Now we're not going to go into regular expressions here.
Just know that mississippi.matches, parenthesis miss
is not the same as mississippi.indexOf,
parenthesis miss in double quotes greater than minus one.
All right.
That's matches.
Finally now let's look at regionMatches.
Now another way to see if miss is in mississippi
would be to use one of the regionMatches methods
on a string.
Let's add some code.
Let's run this.
You can see that that evaluates to true.
Let's now test ignoring the case
by adding a boolean parameter
as the first parameter and see what happens.
Again, I'll paste in some code.
So, you can see we've got that first boolean parameter.
Run the code.
Again, this code evaluated to true.
That's because case was ignored.
So far, so good.
Let's now change the offset.
I'm gonna add some more code in.
All right.
So, we run this code.
You can see we've got false, false, true.
regionMatches doesn't evaluate
whether a substring is in the full string exactly
but evaluates whether the region
specified by the index offsets and length match a region
in the source string with the same length.
All right.
I think we've covered
the less familiar text search methods in string.
So, we'll end the video here.
In the next one, we'll talk about other types
of manipulations of strings.
See you in the next video.